---
title: Abstract Measure Spaces (Part 2)
date: 2021-02-18
categories:
  - Maths
tags:
  - maths
  - probability
  - statistics
  - probability theory
  - measure theory
type: book
weight: 20
---

# 1 Introduction

The content of this part is based on Terence Tao's An Introduction to Measure Theory. Please refer to the book for proves. There is also a Youtube tutorial series by the Bright Side of Mathematics on Measure Theory.

Having developed the definition of Lebesgue measure, we now work in a more abstract setting where $\mathbb{R}^d$ is replaced by a general space $X$.

In order to define measure and integration on space $X$, we need:

1. Set of measurable sets: $\mathcal{B} \in 2^X$
2. Measure $\mu : \mathcal{B} \rightarrow [0, +\infty]$

The triple $(X, \mathcal{B}, \mu)$ defines a measure space.

# 2 Axioms

In an abstract measure space, normality and translation invariance are irrelevant. As such, the axioms of a measure are defined as:
{{<aside title="Measure Axioms" type="blue">}}

- **Positivity**: $0 \leq \mu(E) \leq +\infty \\; \forall \\; E \in \mathbb{R}^d$
- **Null empty set**: $\mu(\emptyset) = 0$
- **Countable additivity**: $\mu(\bigcup \limits_{i=1}^{\infty} E_i) = \sum \limits_{i=1}^{\infty} \mu(E_i)$ for pairwise disjoint sets
  {{</aside>}}

Given a generic set $X$ and generic measure $\mu$ on $X$, a normal mathematician would proceed to list out the properties of the set (of sets) which is closed under "measurability" operations. These spaces are called σ-algebras.

{{<aside title="σ-algebra Properties" type="blue">}}
Let $\Sigma \subset 2^X$ be a σ-algebra:

- $X,\emptyset \in \Sigma$
- $\Sigma$ closed under complement
- $\Sigma$ closed under countable unions (and hence intersection)

{{</aside>}}

There is absolutely no need to imagine what they are aside from the set that given any other measurable set $E \in X$, we know that there is a smallest σ-algebra "generated by" set $E$, denoted as $\mathcal{B}(E)$. Not surprisingly, $\mathcal{B}(E)$ is the intersection of all σ-algebra that contains $E$, which obviously exists.

# 3 Relevant Algebraic Structures

As mentioned above, it is hard to imagine what a random σ-algebra looks like. As such, theorems regarding measurable "stuff" (sets, functions, etc.) are often proved using extension theorems and convergence theorems based on results on weaker algebraic structures. We will define some useful ones below.

## 2.1 σ-algebra

## 2.2 Boolean-algebra

## 2.3 Semialgebra

## 2.4 π-system

## 2.5 λ-system
